seo is something we're passionate about
um something i'm personally passionate
about is such a great way
as a long-term strategy much like
building a following on linkedin
it's um it's a long-term game so
unfortunately it's not something you can
click your fingers and overnight you're
going to be page one for all the search
terms you can get tons of traffic tons
of leads
tons of sales so it does need a
thoughtful strategy
so there are a few main elements to
creating a winning seo strategy
as it were first and foremost is getting
the foundation right
so before you even think about kind of
tinkering with your website
tinkering with the content the technical
markup or trying to do off-site work you
really want to do the research properly
and there's a number of tools you can do
use to use the research it could be
semrush it could be google keyword
planner
you could utilize google search console
and really you want to think about
firstly what are the main products or
the main services
i want to be selling so let's say
you provide i don't know let's say
you're you're i don't know sales
management consultant
so you might want to be on page one of
you for if someone's searching sales
management consultancy
if someone's searching my best sales
trainers if someone's searching like
high performance sales training so those
might be some of the main services that
you actually want to get
leads for so you've got to think about
what whether that's a product whether
it's a service
and then you can use these kind of tools
or if you employ a company they can use
these tools to
work out the search terms work out if
they're getting search volume
but one of the things to consider is
that
not every some search terms may be
flooded so they may be highly
competitive
there may be companies that are spending
thousands if not millions on them per
month
so they might not be worth going for so
you may want to look at kind of what's
called longer tail search terms
to give you a quick idea without boring
you too much um a longer tail search
term if we were a sales trainer might be
best sales trainer
in the uk or best sound trainer in the
usa so adding extra
terms to the keyword and yeah it's
essentially about looking at
search terms that are relevant um that
have high intent so if someone's looking
at it
they're probably going to need your
services picking the ones that are
relevant to what you offer
and then once you've got a list of
search terms you want to hone in on
there's a couple things you need to do
on your website
so we need to look at an on-site
strategy because there's two main
elements to seo right there's
on-site seo and there's offset seo
everything you do on your website
everything you do off your website and
feel free to jump in if i'm moving too
fast so
on site you need to look at
the technical side of things so once
we've got our search terms we want to
target
technically we need to look make sure
that there's because google recently
um released something called cool web
vitals and it's really important your
website hits a number of
things to help it rank better so that
one of those things includes page speed
so this is something i ramble on about a
lot your website needs to load lightning
fast because if it's slow
it's it's really going to affect the
customer experience and if no one no one
likes a slow site
if if they click your listing in google
and it takes 10 seconds to load they're
going to head to a competitor that gives
them a more enjoyable experience
so it's things like that it's things
like making sure the
met what's called the technical markups
are things like meta titles meta
descriptions which is the actual listing
that you see in google are
on par with the search terms that you've
agreed on
making sure all other elements are page
titles h1 tags etc
now getting into the content google
loves fresh content it loves relevant
content
it loves informative content that's
really going to help the user
and so do people ultimately if you're
searching for something
let's say bring it back to the sales
training thing if you you search for
sales trainer
and you click on a page that doesn't
really help you out so it doesn't say
kind of
here's why we're the best sales trainer
here's some useful resources like some
blogs some videos some articles some
infographics
if it just gives a couple lines of text
and ask you to get in touch
it's not really building confidence that
they're a useful resource so
making sure that your information that
you have dedicated information pages for
your key services
a link to your search terms and making
sure those information pages are really
relevant
useful and helpful resources so if
someone lands on that content page
they're really encouraged to learn more
about what you offer and then click
through learn a bit more
about your company and eventually get in
touch with you so request a quote or
yeah yeah that's a great point because
you know i noticed like some people when
it comes to
seo and even i noticed this for people
who use hashtags on instagram
so they use keywords that attracts their
competition to them instead of
tracking their customers they use
keywords that their
competition is searching for for example
if i'm selling facebook advertising
services
like people start using keywords like
uh for example how to solve this
specific problem when it comes to
facebook advertising
which which means like when when the
customer is searching for facebook
advertising services they don't know
about those details they won't search
about it you are attracting your
competition to you because
your competition who's doing facebook
ads is searching
for these keywords and they keep like
attracting the wrong type of people to
their websites or even on instagram when
they use hashtags
yeah no that's that's exactly right it's
got to be it's got to be relevant to
what you do
um and if for example bringing it back
to the trainer
side of things if you did decide best
sales training was one of your search
terms you might want to do a page purely
devoted to that and maybe have some
useful videos
maybe have some useful questions and
answers maybe have some useful
infographics and just really help the
user
get a feel for what you can offer how
you can help them as much detail
and ultimately if you can produce better
content in your competition over time
that's going to pay off
and get you more traffic and once you've
optimized your site in terms of the
technical side of things in terms of the
content
really providing value really making
sure it's relevant to the search terms
you're going for and also helping your
customers enjoy
their experience on your website then
you can look at the off-site strategy
so this might be things like creating
articles creating press releases
creating
um blogs posting our infographics
posting out
animated videos whatever this content is
and then distributing it onto trusted
websites
that perhaps related to your industry
and building what's called backlinks
that send users back to your site which
will send signals to google
which over time is going to build up
your website's domain authority
build up your link juice and also build
up your organic positionings
in google over time when done
consistently when done over time
yeah and that's what's going to get you
the web traffic that's what's going to
get you those page one results and most
importantly get you the
inbound leads or the sales depending on
what you're looking to do